Resources/Meetings/2020-07-20 11:00.md, before:

# Meeting

## Agenda

1. Update on the literature research
    - Discuss three steps discussed with Ana
        - Define workload
        - Create method to extract usage patterns
        - Find empirical evidence that we can transform usage patterns into energy savings
    - Discuss studies that analyze workload
        - Studies found innate coupling between performance variables and power consumption
        - Performance and power consumption are largely determined by the rate at which instructions are issued as well as the ratio of global memory transactions to computation instructions
        - GPGPUSim simulation of kernel to infer performance variables
        - Random forest approach that correlates power consumption with a set of independent performance variables
            - Can show most influential variables in power prediction
    - Discuss studies th save energy
        - Workload characterization to load-balance workloads by prediction a workload's power consumption and grouping workloads so that they remain within power budgets
        - Using DVFS to slow down CPU or GPU frequencies and load balancing to save energy
            - Optimal frequencies and load balancing determined using a model that predicts execution time and total power consumption
2. Date and time of the bi-weekly meeting (for the next three months)
    - Preferably on friday
        - We can discuss the week's progress
        - We can plan for the next week
3. Common platform to monitor progress (progress report ...  )
    - I have currently been using Overleaf's git functionality
        - We can use something else
4. Involvement from NLeSC (Ben has shown interest in this regard, How can we involve him ?)
5. Planning for next three months (What should be done and the expected outcome)
    - Discuss plan made with Ana
        - Define workload types and characterization strategies
        - Create method to extract usage patterns and power consumption models
        - Find empirical evidence that we can transform usage patterns into energy savings
            - Some studies have shown this to be possible already

Commit message:

Add more background and research design

Resources/Meetings/2020-07-20 11:00.md, after:

# Meeting

## Agenda

1. Update on the literature research
    - Discuss three steps discussed with Ana
        - Define workload
        - Create method to extract usage patterns
        - Find empirical evidence that we can transform usage patterns into energy savings
    - Discuss studies that analyze workload
        - Studies found innate coupling between performance variables and power consumption
        - Performance and power consumption are largely determined by the rate at which instructions are issued as well as the ratio of global memory transactions to computation instructions
        - GPGPUSim simulation of kernel to infer performance variables
        - Random forest approach that correlates power consumption with a set of independent performance variables
            - Can show most influential variables in power prediction
    - Discuss studies that save energy
        - Workload characterization to load-balance workloads by prediction a workload's power consumption and grouping workloads so that they remain within power budgets
        - Using DVFS to slow down CPU or GPU frequencies and load balancing to save energy
            - Optimal frequencies and load balancing determined using a model that predicts execution time and total power consumption
        - Disabling cores when using more cores is not likely to result in more performance
            - Looks at memory bandwidth saturation
2. Date and time of the bi-weekly meeting (for the next three months)
    - Preferably on friday
        - We can discuss the week's progress
        - We can plan for the next week
3. Common platform to monitor progress (progress report ...  )
    - I have currently been using Overleaf's git functionality
        - We can use something else
4. Involvement from NLeSC (Ben has shown interest in this regard, How can we involve him ?)
5. Planning for next three months (What should be done and the expected outcome)
    - Discuss plan made with Ana
        - Define workload types and characterization strategies
        - Create method to extract usage patterns and power consumption models
        - Find empirical evidence that we can transform usage patterns into energy savings
            - Some studies have shown this to be possible already
