# Meeting

The project exists out of two components:

- Application analysis
  - Characterize the workflow
  - Determine application energy usage characteristics
- Apply measures to reduce energy consumption
  - Determine measures that are available (potentially automatically or with guidance by application developers)
  - First apply system-level measures
  - Then apply application-level measures

The master's project's report should also use the first person form for work done by me and the third person form for work done by others.

## Questions

- Can application sources be modified to use optimizations, for example by using functions from a power optimizing framework, or should optimizations be applied only externally to the GPU?
- Is the focus only on Nvidia GPUs or are other GPU vendors included as well?

## Literature

The two most influential factors are the clock frequency and voltages, which can be controlled using dynamic voltage and frequency scaling (DVFS) [1].
Redesigning kernels for energy efficiency is another approach to power savings on the GPU [1].

Literature mentions that higher precision calculations require more power and that power usage decreases super-linearly by using lower precisions to simulate higher precisions using specialized techniques [2].
Perhaps add library functionality that automatically does this for applications that meet the required parameters.

Power capping and task mapping can be determined using models of the performance and the maximum power consumption of a CPU-GPU heterogenous system, allowing near-optimal settings of device frequencies and task mapping to be determined in advance of the application execution [3].
The problem of frequency settings of CPUs and GPUs cannot be separated from the problem of load balancing among CPUs and GPUs [3].

The most important factors that determine a GPU kernel's power usage are the rate of issuing instructions and the ratio of global memory transactions to computation instructions [4].

### More literature

I can find related literature in the [folder created by Ana](https://surfdrive.surf.nl/files/index.php/s/ke8kB19t7dP4X8W).

Of the papers listed a few interesting ones were mentioned during the meeting:

- The bachelor thesis by Julius Wagt (Julius_Wagt_Thesis.pdf)
- Microbenchmarks to determine application performance and power characteristics (07509423.pdf)
- Paper about interesting energy measurement technologies (energies-12-02204.pdf)
- Thesis by a colleague of mine about power capping in context of autotuning (I don't know which file this is because it was not yet added but it should be one of the newest entries in the folder)
  - Ana noted that the paper's results might not be perfectly valid, but that the approach used is interesting to investigate.

### References

1. Haidar, A., Abdelfattah, A., Zounon, M., Wu, P., Pranesh, S., Tomov, S., & Dongarra, J. (2018). The design of fast and energy-efficient linear solvers: On the potential of half-precision arithmetic and iterative refinement techniques. In Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics) (Vol. 10860 LNCS, pp. 586–600). https. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-93698-7_45
2. Haidar, A., Tomov, S., Dongarra, J., & Higham, N. J. (2019). Harnessing GPU Tensor cores for fast FP16 arithmetic to speed up mixed-precision iterative refinement solvers. In Proceedings - International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage, and Analysis, SC 2018 (pp. 603–613). https://doi.org/10.1109/SC.2018.00050
3. Komoda, T., Hayashi, S., Nakada, T., Miwa, S., & Nakamura, H. (2013). Power capping of CPU-GPU heterogeneous systems through coordinating DVFS and task mapping. In 2013 IEEE 31st International Conference on Computer Design, ICCD 2013 (pp. 349–356). https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCD.2013.6657064
4. Komoda, T., Hayashi, S., Nakada, T., Miwa, S., & Nakamura, H. (2013). Power capping of CPU-GPU heterogeneous systems through coordinating DVFS and task mapping. In 2013 IEEE 31st International Confere
